——ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARD SPEC——

This is the second iteration of the Hazard Design Document.

The design aims to incorporate those structures to the environment of the game. They should feel natural within the imagined world of Moonfern.

This interaction assumes Nyra is immortal, therefore cannot be damaged in any way by the following hazards or by the players incompetency in navigating the environment.

The following only have the ability to damage Gleamwrought
————————————————————

1. Tanglevines 

Found in: base forest

Visually resembles Devil’s snare (look up from Harry Potter saga). Placed on the floor, maybe in a form of a small bush, or a special floor tile (asset) that indicates their presence.

When Gleamwrought enters the area, vines wrap around their feet, stopping them for 3 seconds (immobilization).

*If Nyra gets affected: 

As Nyra belongs to the forest, the vines recognize her and don’t block her way, but she needs to be careful not to get tangled (slows down for 3 seconds, by a factor of 0.75)

2. Sleepy spores

Found in: underground forest

Small mushrooms that resemble puffballs. 

Release spores that make Gleamwrought doze off for 5 seconds (immobilized)

*If Nyra gets affected: 

Being well educated in herbs and plants of the forest, Nyra knows to hold her breath. No negative consequences

3. Sticky sap

Visual TBD, idea: oil for industrial location 

Found in: industrial area, (forest TBD, different visual)

Slows down gleamwrought when in the area (0.7 [TBD play test])

*If Nyra gets affected:

Slows Nyra down by the same factor, within the area (0.7 [TBD play test])




